Rewrite MPTs concept & related docs (#3312)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: docs/concepts/tokens/fungible-tokens/stablecoins/index.md

---
seo:
    description: Stablecoins are a type of fungible token that are backed by various assets.
labels:
  - XRP
  - Stablecoin
---
# Stablecoins

> A stablecoin is a type of fungible token that is backed by assets of value outside of the blockchain in which is issued. Typically, the stablecoin's issuer holds backing assets representing the equivalent value of the tokens issued on the XRP ledger. A stablecoin issuer is sometimes called a _gateway_, because currency can move into and out of the XRP Ledger through their service. If the assets that back a token use the same amounts and denomination as the tokens in the ledger, that token can be considered a "stablecoin" because—in theory—the exchange rate between that token and its off-ledger representation should be stable at 1:1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A stablecoin is a type of fungible token that is backed by assets of equal denominations and amounts offchain, such as U.S. dollars. The token is considered stable because it has a 1:1 exchange rate with its offchain asset. Typically, the stablecoin's issuer holds backing assets representing the equivalent value of the tokens issued on the XRP ledger. A stablecoin issuer is sometimes called a _gateway_, because currency can move into and out of the XRP Ledger through their service.
```
Tweaked the wording since the original makes it sound like a stablecoin can be any token that's backed by assets. The last sentence is what makes a stablecoin a stablecoin, and not just another fungible token.

Author: Fractional reserve stablecoins are a real (if somewhat frowned-upon) possibility. For a long time, people have suspected that USDT (Tether) is not fully backed—but as long as they have _enough_ USD to process withdrawals, it remains stable.

Reviewer: In that case I think we should explain the difference between the more generally understood definition of stablecoin, and fractional stablecoins and the risk associated with it.
